Daniel Perez Alvarez

  Software engineer with a focus on frontend development. Experienced
  both in starting projects from scratch, as well as maintaining large
  legacy codebases.

  -   [Phone] (+1) 206 698 6781
  -   [Email] unindented@gmail.com
  -   [Website] unindented.org
  -   [GitHub] @unindented
  -   [Twitter] @unindented

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Experience

Dec 2018 – Present

    Principal Software Engineer at Microsoft (Redmond, WA)

    I’m currently leading the rewrite of Yammer’s web client, using
    TypeScript, React, Redux, and GraphQL. Particularly focused on
    maintaining quality through tooling, using Jest, ESLint, and
    Puppeteer.

    -   Working on reaching feature parity with the legacy web client.
    -   Implementing new features to address top customer needs.
    -   Scaling the codebase to 30+ engineers with different skill
        levels.

Feb 2017 – Dec 2018

    Senior Software Engineer at Microsoft (Redmond, WA)

    I relocated to Microsoft’s offices in Redmond, but kept working on
    Yammer’s main web client.

    -   Worked on migrating the codebase from legacy technologies like
        jQuery and Backbone, to React and Redux, in order to improve
        developer productivity and happiness.
    -   Developed Yammer’s desktop client from scratch, using Electron
        and TypeScript.
    -   Pitched a rewrite of Yammer’s web client, with documents
        explaining the new architecture and the general plan we’d
        follow. Senior leadership accepted the proposal, and staffed it
        with me as lead engineer.

Oct 2012 – Feb 2017

    Senior Software Development Engineer at Microsoft (London, UK)

    After the acquisition by Microsoft, I kept working on Yammer’s main
    web client, developing features and improving the maintainability of
    the ~220KLOC front-end codebase.

    -   Helped introduce peer-reviewed pull requests into the workflow,
        improving communication among developers, and progressively
        reducing technical debt.
    -   Migrated a four-thousand-line custom build process to Webpack,
        reducing maintenance costs, and allowing for the introduction of
        productivity-enhancing tools like TypeScript.
    -   Prototyped a desktop client that wrapped the original web
        client, using Electron.
    -   Prototyped an alternative web client, using React and Redux.
    -   Prototyped alternative iOS and Android clients that shared 90%
        of their code, using React Native.
    -   Gave internal talks on various topics, including React, Redux
        and Webpack.

Jul 2012 – Oct 2012

    Software Development Engineer II at Yammer (London, UK)

    Yammer is an enterprise social network. As an early hire for their
    London offices, I worked on the development of Yammer’s main web
    client, a single-page app built on top of a Ruby on Rails
    application.

    -   Led the development of key features, collaborating with product
        managers, designers, front-end and back-end engineers, and data
        analysts.
    -   Shipped projects and measured their impact on user engagement
        and other metrics, making heavy use of feature flags and A/B
        testing.
    -   Started the migration from an undocumented and untested internal
        MVC framework to Backbone, speeding up development, and making
        onboarding of new hires much easier.
    -   Improved the consistency of the front-end codebase by
        introducing style guides and linting through JSHint, making it
        easier to understand and grep, and raising potential errors
        sooner in the development pipeline.
    -   Helped push the Jasmine unit test count from less than a hundred
        to over seven thousand.

Dec 2011 – Jun 2012

    Software Developer (Freelance) at Avallain (Madrid, Spain)

    Avallain is a Swiss company that focuses on education technology and
    digital publishing. I worked remotely with their engineering team on
    the creation of an ambitious online learning platform.

    -   Kickstarted the back-end, based on RefineryCMS / Ruby on Rails,
        and reliant on Amazon Web Services like S3, SES, SQS and
        SimpleDB.
    -   Developed the front-end from start to finish, making heavy use
        of Backbone and Bootstrap, following a test-driven workflow.

Mar 2011 – Dec 2011

    Software Developer (Freelance) at EMC (Madrid, Spain)

    EMC is a multinational corporation that provides data storage,
    information security, virtualization, analytics and cloud computing
    solutions. I worked with their engineering team on various projects.

    -   Reduced bulk-load and access times of hundreds of millions of
        invoices stored in Documentum by ~50%, mainly through better XML
        parsing, and database sharding.
    -   Improved user experience in multiple web apps through
        intelligent use of JavaScript.
    -   Automated server management tasks, freeing engineers to work on
        other issues.
    -   Introduced the team to static analysis tools and unit testing.

Mar 2008 – Mar 2011

    Analyst Programmer at Atos (Madrid, Spain)

    Atos is a European IT services corporation. I was part of their
    consulting team, working on document management solutions.

    -   Managed a team of three developers to build an electronic
        registry for use in Spanish government agencies. We pioneered
        the use of open-source solution Alfresco in the department.
    -   Performed all kinds of customizations and improvements on both
        the front-end and the back-end of Documentum Webtop and
        Documentum Compliance Manager installations.
    -   Introduced the team to source control, build tools, static
        analysis tools and unit testing.

Sep 2006 – Mar 2008

    Analyst Programmer at CSC (Madrid, Spain)

    CSC is a multinational corporation that provides IT services and
    professional services. I was part of their consulting team, working
    on document management solutions.

    -   Collaborated directly with the customer to create several
        intranet portals using Documentum Web Publisher. Made user
        experience and accessibility top priorities.
    -   Aided in the maintenance and improvement of a large Documentum
        Webtop installation.
    -   Introduced the team to source control, build tools, static
        analysis tools and unit testing.

Education

Sep 2001 – Sep 2006

    M.Sc. in Computer Science at U. Pontificia de Comillas
    (Madrid, Spain)

    My final year project consisted of applying neuro-evolution of
    augmenting topologies to videogames (more specifically to Half-Life
    2).
